# mvt ⚡
> No-bundle Dev Server for Vue 3 Single-File Components.
## Getting Started
```bash
$ npx create-mvt-app <project-name>
$ cd <project-name>
$ npm install
$ npm run dev
```
If using Yarn:
``` bash
$ yarn create mvt-app <project-name>
$ cd <project-name>
$ yarn
$ yarn dev
```
## How is This Different from a Bundler-based Setup?
The primary difference is that for `mvt` there is no bundling during development. The ES Import syntax in your source code is served directly to the browser, and the browser parses them via native `<script module>` support, making HTTP requests for each import. The dev server intercepts the requests and performs code transforms if necessary. For example, an import to a `*.vue` file is compiled on the fly right before it's sent back to the browser.
There are a few advantages of this approach:
- Since there is no bundling work to be done, the server cold start is extremely fast.
- Code is compiled on demand, so only code actually imported on the current screen is compiled. You don't have to wait until your entire app to be bundled to start developing. This can be a huge difference in apps with dozens of screens.
- Hot module replacement (HMR) performance is decoupled from the total number of modules. This makes HMR consistently fast no matter how big your app is.
Full page reload could be slightly slower than a bundler-based setup, since native ES imports result in network waterfalls with deep import chains. However since this is local development, the difference should be trivial compared to actual compilation time. (There is no compile cost on page reload since already compiled files are cached in memory.)
Finally, because compilation is still done in Node, it can technically support any code transforms a bundler can, and nothing prevents you from eventually bundling the code for production. In fact, `mvt` provides a `mvt build` command to do exactly that so the app doesn't suffer from network waterfall in production.
`mvt` is highly experimental at this stage and is not suitable for production use, but we hope to one day make it so.
## How is This Different from [es-dev-server](https://open-wc.org/developing/es-dev-server.html)?
`es-dev-server` is a great project and we did take some inspiration from it when refactoring `mvt` in the early stages. That said, here is why `mvt` is different from `es-dev-server` and why we didn't just implement `mvt` as a middleware for `es-dev-server`:
- `mvt` supports Hot Module Replacement, which surgically updates the updated module without reloading the page. This is a fundamental difference in terms of development experience. `es-dev-server` internals is a bit too opaque to get this working nicely via a middleware.
- `mvt` aims to be a single tool that integrates both the dev and the build process. You can use `mvt` to both serve and bundle the same source code, with zero configuration.
- `mvt` requires native ES module imports. It does not intend to burden itself with support for legacy browsers.
## Features
### Bare Module Resolving
Native ES imports doesn't support bare module imports like
```js
import { createApp } from 'vue'
```
The above will throw an error by default. `mvt` detects such bare module imports in all served `.js` files and rewrite them with special paths like `/@modules/vue`. Under these special paths, `mvt` performs module resolution to locate the correct files on disk:
- `vue` has special handling: you don't need to install it since `mvt` will serve it by default. But if you want to use a specific version of `vue` (only supports Vue 3.x), you can install `vue` locally into `node_modules` and it will be preferred (`@vue/compiler-sfc` of the same version will also need to be installed).
- If a `web_modules` directory (generated by [Snowpack](https://www.snowpack.dev/)) is present, we will try to locate it.
- Finally we will try resolving the module from `node_modules`, using the package's `module` entry if available.
### Hot Module Replacement
- `*.vue` files come with HMR out of the box.
- For `*.js` files, a simple HMR API is provided:
  ```js
  import { foo } from './foo.js'
  import { hot } from '@hmr'
  foo()
  hot.accept('./foo.js', (newFoo) => {
    // the callback receives the updated './foo.js' module
    newFoo.foo()
  })
  // Can also accept an array of dep modules:
  hot.accept(['./foo.js', './bar.js'], ([newFooModule, newBarModule]) => {
    // the callback receives the updated mdoules in an Array
  })
  ```
  Modules can also be self-accepting:
  ```js
  import { hot } from '@hmr'
  export const count = 1
  hot.accept(newModule => {
    console.log('updated: count is now ', newModule.count)
  })
  ```
  Note that `mvt`'s HMR does not actually swap the originally imported module: if an accepting module re-exports imports from a dep, then it is responsible for updating those re-exports (and these exports must be using `let`). In addition, importers up the chain from the accepting module will not be notified of the change.

  This simplified HMR implementation is sufficient for most dev use cases, while allowing us to skip the expensive work of generating proxy modules.


### CSS / JSON Importing

You can directly import `.css` and `.json` files from JavaScript (including `<script>` tags of `*.vue` files, of course).

- `.json` files exports its content as an object as the default export.

- `.css` files do not export anything. Importing them leads to the side effect of them being injected to the page during dev, or being included in the final `style.css` of the production build.

Both CSS and JSON imports also support Hot Module Replacement.

### Relative Asset URL Handling

You can reference static assets in your `*.vue` templates, styles and plain `.css` files using relative URLs based on the asset's location to the source file on your file system. This is similar to the behavior you are used to if you have used `vue-cli` or webpack's `file-loader`.

Referenced assets will be copied to the dist folder with a hashed file name in the production build.

### PostCSS

`mvt` automatically applies your PostCSS config to all styles in `*.vue` files and imported plain `.css` files. Just install necessary plugins and add a `postcss.config.js` in your project root.

Note that you do **not** need to configure PostCSS if you want to use `<style module>` in `*vue` files: it's supported out of the box.

### CSS Pre-Processors

Because `mvt` targets modern browsers only, it is recommend to use native CSS variables with PostCSS plugins that implements CSSWG drafts (e.g. [postcss-nesting]()) and author plain, future-standards-compliant CSS. That said, if you insist on using a CSS pre-processor, you can install the corresponding pre-processor and just use it:

``` bash
yarn add -D sass